In the explore phase of the UOCD process, we were tasked with going in like anthropologists, to observe and participate in the daily activities of our users.  

We were well primed for encounters, with a mindset that we would Look what type of tasks our users engaged in, Ask about what they were doing, Try to perform activities with them to get a sense of what they were talking about from their standpoint, and finally ask Why certain things were they way they were.

The Look-Ask-Try-Why method was unbelievably helpful at extracting the details of our users lived-experiences.  What I learned, however, during my group's exploration of the Tiny Home community, was that some motivations are not captured by the past or present stories someone shares with you.

We interviewed Nick, a micro-apartment dweller in New York, to expand our view of tiny-space living.  We approached the interview like any other - asking for his lived-experience in the stages of purchasing and living in a small space.

The challenge was his story was hard to compare to other users. His experience was heavily influenced by the fact that he rented a micro-apartment during a 3-month impermanent stay.

The interview all changed when we asked Nick this question:  “In your idealized world, what does your future long term living situation look like?” What we learned was that Nick really wanted a 2000-3000 square foot house a close commute by car away from work.  He was not at all a person who aspired, in the perfect circumstances, to smaller living.

By getting his mindset into the “forward” looking stage, we were able to compare his motivations with those of people in the Tiny House community ready to build or currently building their dream Tiny Home dwellings.

One of our deepest insights about Tiny Home owners came out of talking with Nick about his large, multi-bedroom dream home: each area of the home should have a separate purpose. We learned later, that, even though a Tiny Home will be tightly packed (often with the shower, kitchen, and bed within arms length with one another!), most Tiny Homes still have a big room to support social space, a lofted bed dedicated to sleeping, a small kitchen counter top for preparing and cooking food.  In addition, amenities that usually is present in a larger home, like a washer or dryer for example, gets out-sourced to a laundromat in the greater community (See Figure 1.) It is still possible and highly-desired for spaces to be compartmentalized in Tiny Homes. 

The fairy-tale method works when you want to dig deeper into your users' motivations.

I would caution anyone to not use this newly-discovered method willy-nilly.  "If you only have a hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail."

I wouldn't go asking your users about their fairy-tales from the get-go.  Be patient and let your users tell you their lived-experiences first.  Do your Look-Ask-Try-Whys. They should be a prerequisite before you dig deeper with asking hypothetical questions.

Use this method if their motivations are not coming up with typical “Why” questioning methods.  For example, if you ask “why do you think you are hitting this wall in your life?”, your user might feel closed about answering this.  If you pose it as “tell me what a solved situation would look like”, answering about solving tough problems becomes less intimidating for the user.