Overall it worked well for India. In a globalized economy, we need as many bridges as possible to the outside world. We have tried sitting inside a well for a couple of centuries and that didn't work well. World has enormous number of new things to teach us and the cultures that learn the most wins. Cultures that arrogantly sit there thinking the world has nothing to teach them, disappear like water droplets on a hot desert. 

Like it or not India needs the world. Even cultures that have staunchly resisted outside world in the past - Japan, United States and China - are deeply integrated in the global economy. 

Okay, so we need the world. How would be communicate with that world? Not many people outside India speak Hindi or Sanskrit or other Indian languages. And they are not going to change anytime in the future. Thus, it was up to us to learn the languages of the world.

Okay, so we need to learn a world language. Which one? English, of course. China was never under English occupation and don't speak Indo-European family. Still they are spending huge amount of resources to learn English. France and Germany have fought wars with the English for centuries. They see English as a junior language, inferior to theirs. Still, they learn to speak English anyway. Americans fought a hard battle to throw out the English crown. But, they retained the English language anyway. If the Chinese, French and Germans can learn English, India can too. And it is an Indo-European language - cousin of Indian languages and with a lot of present vocabulary brought from India.

With or without the colonization, India needed to learn English to communicate with the rest of the world. If there were no English, we would have learned some other lingua franca. That would not have been an Indian language either.
Learning English is not an option. It is our nation's survival. Educated people in every part of the world - in France, Germany, China, Latin America, Japan leave alone US, UK, Australia and Canada - learn English. It is where most of the world's best academic works are written. whether India adopted English or not, at some point of time the students who didn't learn English would have suffered. You cannot ignore the world language. Imagine being on a phone call with a client or partner in Germany or US. What language will that person communicate through? In a globalized world, you expect a person without English knowledge to survive? You can all have the knowledge in the brain, but unless you communicate that sits there useless. Communication is the bare minimum. 

And we can easily learn multiple languages. Our brains are far powerful to allow that. English is not hampering our local languages. Our own insecurities do that. And protecting those languages can be done without hampering the learning of English.

For those of you who wants to protect their local languages, help create a lot of interesting works that makes the language worth learning. In Tamil, the creation of the epic novel Ponniyin Selvan in the 1950s created whole generations of people who developed a love for Tamil literature. We need hundreds of such works. English is not blocking any of that process. If only those who claim to love their native languages read and write books in their own languages things will change. Leave alone books. How many of these passionate Hindi lovers contribute to the Hindi Wikipedia (विकिपीडिया)? What is blocking them? 

English has done a great amount of good to India by opening India to the world. And we need to open up a lot. No amount of jingoist chest beating is going to change the fact that India needs English to communicate with the world. If I had not learned English, I would have written this answer in Tamil or Sanskrut, and I'm sure 90% of the readers would not have understood.